About the Project<br/>
This Emily Dickinson Fascicle 16 site was developed by four students at the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg. Our members were part of the Digital Humanities Fall 2015 class which required an end-of-term project. Our team decided to take on a project which originally started on this site: (link). After finding this original site, Dr. Elisa Beshero-Bondar - our Digital Humanities professor - adapted the site and made her own version to teach in her English Literature classes (link). However, she made the site during a plane flight and it needed several updates and revisions when our class looked at it early in the semester. The class broke into two groups, and the four of us found ourselves taking on the Dickinson Project and making our own version of the site. <br/>
Throughout the semester, we learned all of the tools that we would need to make our own Dickinson site. We learned basic XML coding of documents, learned how to apply XSLT Stylesheets to these documents, make them into HTML pages, use SVG to make graphs, and Javascript to go along with the webpages, along with several other skills. We worked hard throughout most of the semester to learn all of these skills and spent the last two weeks of class applying them to our project in real life. <br/>
When originally looking at the site, we had to develop a research question. This was difficult without knowing much about the purpose behind the original project, and our professor’s site featured pages with photos of poems and we were unsure how they were connected. We knew the site needed reorganized, but we didn’t know what question to pose.  The original question was to compare variations within Dickinson’s manuscript with published versions of the poems to see which lines were chosen to be published. However, much more was changed within each poem and a further analysis of our research can be found on our conclusion page, along with an analysis of the usage of dashes.<br/>
Our hopes are that this site provides an insightful look at Dickinson’s Fascicle 16 when comparing it to changes made when they were published. 
